Open Data Sources
Availability and access: the data must be available as a whole and at no more than a reasonable reproduction cost, preferably by downloading over the internet. The data must also be available in a convenient and modifiable form.
Reuse and redistribution: the data must be provided under terms that permit reuse and redistribution including the intermixing with other datasets. The data must be machine-readable.
Universal participation: everyone must be able to use, reuse and redistribute — there should be no discrimination against fields of endeavour or against persons or groups. For example, ‘non-commercial’ restrictions that would prevent ‘commercial’ use, or restrictions of use for certain purposes (e.g. only in education), are not allowed.
-- Definition by the Open Knowledge Foundation

Lists of Data Sets
Interesting Data Sets for Statisticians - editorialized, entertaining set of open data
Open Data
List of Public Datasets - user-curated
DBpedia - utilizing a large multi-domain ontology
Public Data Sets on AWS - common web crawl corpus, NASA satellite imagery, Human Genome, Google Book NGrams, Wikipedia Traffic, Million Song Dataset, Federal Reserve Economic Data, PubChem, more.
Private Opened Data
New York Times - vocabulary as linked open data; linked vocabulary of people, places, companies, etc.
Governmental Data
Compendium of Governmental Open Data Sources

Data.gov (USA)
Africa Open Data
US Census - Population Estimates and Projections, Nonemployer Statistics and County Business Patterns, Economic Indicators Time Series, more.
Non-Governmental Org Data
The World Bank - business regulation measures, company-level data in emerging markets, household consumption patterns, World Development Indicators, World Bank finances
^Pew Research Center's Internet Project
Academic Data
Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research Data Portal

Surveys of Economic Attitudes and Behavior
Continuing Series of Consumer Surveys
Historical and Contemporary Economic Processes and Indicators
Truly Random Data
200,000+ Jeopardy! Questions in a JSON file
10,000 annotated images of cats
Open Data Resources
reddit r/datasets
Open Data - Stack Exchange (discussion)
